Introduction
The Blockchain is a distributed database with special technological attributes that have the potential to transform and greatly improve the real property transaction ecosystem.  The Land Registry's task of storing and transferring ownership details can be performed on the blockchain.  Blockchain can automate the registration process and with it the whole real property transaction process.  The blockchain-based technology that can significantly improve the transfer of ownership of real property is called a smart contract.
At the moment the real property transaction process - the sale of a property -  typically is a long process, taking about 3 months on average.  Improvements in the process have been made with advances in technology. For example the Land Registry offers the AP1 form and the use of electronic conveyancing and electronic signatures as introduced by the Land Registration Act 2002.
Blockchain technologies change the dynamic of the relationships between the involved parties of the real property transaction.  It allows peer to peer transactions, with an altered role for the 3rd parties, also called intermediaries.  What this means for the Land Registry is that key parts of the land or property record would be stored in a smart contract on the blockchain, with a transformed and improved way of transferring ownership.  This arrangement could reduce the real property transaction time down to days, rather than months.
Property has significant value, it is governed by laws, and its transfer can be complicated.  This means that there are a number of parties involved in the transaction process.  In each transaction usually there is the buyer and seller, the Land Registry, solicitors, banks, estate agents and a surveyor.  The transaction process is varied based on the property and the circumstances of those involved in the process.  But many real property transactions involve operations and exceptions that have standardised, quick and/or formalised, responses.  This lends the real property process to automation using Blockchain-based and Information Technology.
For most of its history land and property registration with the Land Registry has been voluntary.  Now only when an unregistered property changes ownership is there a requirement to register the property. This same voluntary approach can be taken with Blockchain technology. Sellers can choose whether to use the Blockchain allowing a gradual transition.  However, the benefits and convenience of using this new technology, combined with ubiqutous access to technologies including computers and mobile phones that are connected to the Internet, will hopefully pull sellers onto the platform.  And once a property has been put on the blockchain, subsequent transactions involving that property should be a lot simpler and quicker.
The Land Registry income would come from charging a a fee for transferring the real property to the blockchain.  The fee would be specified in the transfer process, coded into the smart contract, and taken automatically in digital currency as part of the transaction process. The fee would be fully transparent, and could be updatable. Blockchain-based technology also could help automate and speed up the collection of taxes.
