Bitcoin"Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer electronic cash system."[11] "...and transactions take place between users directly, without an intermediary. These transactions are verified by network nodes and recorded in a public distributed ledger called the blockchain, which uses bitcoin as its unit of account. "[12]
Bitcoin is digital cash and within the context of a real property transaction can be seen as the payment from buyer to seller.  Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency which means that it is based on cryptography to secure the system and verify payments.  The advantages of using this mechanism is that it's secure, quick, incurs low fees, and is transparent.  It also means that it can be used with other Distributed Ledger Technologies.
Bitcoin transactions confirm on average in 10 minutes, but depends on the network, and will vary with the amount of fee paid.  A confirmation is similar in nature to clearing in a bank.  The greater the number of confirmations the greater the permanence of the transaction. As the payments for real property are significant value 6 confirmations or more is advisable. Transaction fees are very low at the moment.  Well under a £1 per transaction.  Transactions on the bitcoin blockchain are transparent, meaning they can be seen by anyone.  But the owners of the addresses that hold, receive or send Bitcoin are anonymous.  A bitcoin address is a bit like an email address, but instead transactions are sent to and from the address.
Because of the way Bitcoin and blockchains are designed they can interact with other DLTs.  With the digital cash payment recorded in the database, which is immutable and timestamped, this bitcoin payment information can be verified and used by the DLT that enables automation of the real property transaction, called a smart contract.
