#### Multisignature

 "Multisignature (often called multisig) is a form of technology used to add additional security for bitcoin transactions. Multisignature addresses require another user or users sign a transaction before it can be broadcast onto the block chain. The required number of signatures is agreed at the start once people agree to create the address."[[19]](14-references.md)

 Bitcoin has introduced multisig addresses recently. These addresses start with a 3. Ethereum addresses start with an 0x (thats zero, x). Ethereum users interact with the Ethereum block chain through two types of account: external accounts and contract accounts. Every account has an address. It is the contract account that can be constructed to act as a multisig account. An example of what is possible with this smart contract is contained in the code [here](14-references.md) on github. But the smart contract would be constructed and written differently for the purposes of a real property transaction.

 Initially multi-sig addresses main function was to act as protection against theft of bitcoin and ether, by requiring more than one signature to verify a transaction. Further applications of multi-sig have been thought up.[[21]](14-references.md) A variation on one of these uses, for the purpose of real property transactions, multi-sig can be used to give 3rd parties control over their interests.

 Most real properties require some form of funding. The funding of a real property is primarily a financial intermediary, usually a bank. Traditionally this funding is secured on the real property with which it was bought. And until this debt was paid, the funder kept the title deed. With the move to a blockchain model, and in the absense of the physical title deed, the financial intermediary needs to have a way to protect it's interest in the real property. A multi-sig account can allow the intermediary to maintain partial control of the account, and therefore the funds and ownership transfers that occur through it.

 This will be done with the multi-sig feature called called m-of-n. n is the total signitaries for that address, and m is the total necessary to verify the transaction. In the case of the real property a 2-of-3 multi-sig address could be used. The owner would be one signatary, the bank another, and the third signatary would be a solicitor.

 The solicitor would take on the role of arbitor. They would arbitrate between the buyer/seller and the bank if necessary, also implementing decisions from the courts. With this setup no one party has ultimate control of the address. If the bank and the buyer/seller agree both can sign the transaction but if there is a disagreement the buyer/seller would need the arbitor to do anything with the real property, as would the bank.

 The arbitor would send the ethereum address of the multi-sig smart contract account to the Land Registry. The Land Registry would then verify the solicitor and ethereum address by checking a database maintained either by the Law Society, another government organisation, or trusted 3rd party, set up for the verification of arbitor's ethereum addresses. The arbibor can then recieve the ethereum addresses from the buyer/seller and the financial intermidiary. Initially The buyer's/seller's ethereum address would be verified by the bank through traditional verification techniques. The buyer's and the bank's ethereum address would then be added as signatories to this multisignatory address. Once the real property is on the blockchain, verification of the solicitor's ethereum address could be done through an query in a smart contract to the relevant organisation.

 The way in which these blockchain technologies come together and are exposed to the buyer and seller is through a Decentralised App (Dapp).

 