Dapps
"A dapp is service that enables direct interaction between end users and providers (e.g. connecting buyers and sellers in some marketplace, owners and storers in file storage)."[22]
Dapps are implemented by Ethereum in this case.  Basically the parties involved in the real property transaction would use a special kind of App called a Dapp to interact with the above described blockchain-based technology and smart contracts. Dapp is short for Decentralised App and the users would interact with it on a mobile phone or laptop in the same way as a traditional App.
The users would be identified by their account.  The account is the one buyers and sellers would send to their solicitor to create the multi-sig smart contract, that can then be used to buy and sell real property.  The users would then interact with the smart contracts that have been written by the Land Registry.  Buyers would send the specified amount of ether or bitcoin to the sellers multi-sig address and the smart contract would execute and record the buyers ownership infomation in the smart contract.
The Dapp would be the interface between the parties involved in the transaction.  One important component of the Dapp is a messaging system with notifications and maybe a chat bot.  The other important part of a Dapp is its use of Application Programming Interfaces (APIs).  APIs are a way for the Dapp to query and request data and information from other services including databases.  Along with smart contracts these can be used to perform actions such as property price negotiation, funding, handling surveys and conveyancing searches.
In computing terms the Dapp is the 'front end' and the smart contracts and blockchain are the 'back end'.  The front end is what the user sees and interacts with.  Dapp's front end is developed in HTML, CSS and Javascript.  The back end is written in Solidity, a programming language similar to Javascript.  The Land Registry already has a dedicated IT team that could be retasked to develop both the Dapps and the smart contracts.
Although Dapps is part of free Open Source Software the transfer to blockchain technology is involved.  The Land Registry is self financing and could continue to be with revenue generated from transferring records to the blockchain, discussed in the next section.
