#### Revenue

 "At the peak of the property boom in 2007, £1 million worth of property was processed every minute in England and Wales."[[23]](14-references.md) Based on this information, at the property tranaction rates that the Land Registry hit in 2007 the natural conversion rate would theoretically take at least 24.5[[24]](13-notes.md) years to transfer all 24 million records to the blockchain. This figure is a minimum for the natural conversion rate. This does not include the time required for planning, design, development, testing and implementation, and other factors to transfer to a blockchain model. Other factors affecting this estimated time includes growth in quantity of real property, that the same property will be sold more than once during this time period, and variations in the rate at which property is sold. However, this natural rate of conversion could be speeded up or slowed down if desired.

 At the natural rate of conversion it would take at least 24.5 years before the revenue received from the change in state of the register relating to change of ownership as per form AP1 stopped. The Land Registry would still get the equivalent of the revenue generated by form AP1 due to the transfer of the first instance of the real property to the blockchain during that transistion phase. Further, because bitcoin and ethereum are not designed to store large amounts of data the records (as distinct from ownership details) would have to be stored somewhere. This could be stored on the Land Registry's database but could be moved to [IPFS[25]](14-references.md). Also records have to be adminsistered including state changes affected by the other forms that the Land Registry processes. Fees could be charged for this administration.

 Fees and charges are coded into the smart contracts so they would be transparent and taken automatically. This could also be applied to any other fees or charges such as taxation. This feature of blockchain would provide significant advantages such as cost savings in areas including processing charges, user error in calculating charges, time savings, paperwork, and increasing the speed at which taxes are collected. Fees and charges could be changed and updated as required.

 The current services and their respective fees, charged by the Land Registry are listed [here.](14-references.md) The fees include an incentive for using the e-DRS by cutting the fee in half. This type of incentive could be used to encourage parties to use the blockchain.

 